Jack Storch
304483390

Open MP Lab

For this lab, I began by loading the file in the seas net linux server using the scp command and the tar -zxvf command to then open this tarball.
I then read about how Open MP works through the companies slides as well as piazza. 

I then ran the function under gprof by typing:

make seq GPROF=1
gprof seq

This gave me a detailed visual of how much each function was taking up of the overall function time with func1 being far in the lead.
I then typed:

make clean	//gets rid of all the files and executables made
make omp
./omp

to make a new executable using Open MP. This also lets me see the time it takes to run which happens to be .6 seconds for Func.

The first two improvements I made were to put:

#pragma omp parallel for

in front of the for loop in func0 as well as the first for loop in func1.

These two, although mostly due to the optimization placed in func1, brought down the time to .54 seconds.

I then tried to optimize Func3 by putting the:

	#pragma omp parallel for

in front of the first and last for loops in that function. I then also used:

	#pragma omp parallel for reduction(+:sumWeights)

for the middle for loop to run the whole function in parallel. Even with all theses improvements, I received little to no improvement. 
I had to used the reduction(+:sumWeights) because it allow each thread to run and then have all there values added together after.

Finally, I optimized the large for loop in Func1 by adding:

	#pragma omp parallel for private(j,index_X,index_Y)

to the beginning of the loop. I struggled with this for a while as I did not know what variables needed to be private and what needed to be shared.
Once I figured this out, it became simple and this finisihed the project dropping the time from .54 to .11.

This in the end, gave me a 5.45x speed increase to my func.c when compared to the non Open MP version.

I then tried even more optimization but found that it either didn’t help at all or actually made the program not work correctly.

For memory purposes I am under the impression that we do not need to worry about that piece too much and my program does not leak very much or ofter at all. But it does a little.
I am not sure what is causing the memory leak and I'm not sure if its even func.c as there were memory leaks even before using Open MP.